---
description: Abettor
---

#### Abettor
<div style="text-align: justify">

A person who abets an offence is someone who abets either the commission of an offence or the commission of an act that would be an offence if committed by a person capable by law of committing an offence with the same intention or knowledge as that of the abettor.

</div>

??? info "Explanation 1"
    <div style="text-align: justify"> The abetment of the illegal omission of an act may amount to an offence, although the abettor may not himself be bound to do that act.

??? info "Explanation 2"
    <div style="text-align: justify"> To constitute the offence of abetment, it is not necessary that the act abetted be committed or that the effect requisite to constitute the offence be caused.

??? example "Illustrations"
    <div style="text-align: justify"> 1. A instigates B to murder C. B refuses to do so. A is guilty of abetting B to commit murder.
    <div style="text-align: justify"> 2. A instigates B to murder D. B in pursuance of the instigation, stabs D. D recovers from the wound. A is guilty of instigating B to commit murder.

??? info "Explanation 3"
    <div style="text-align: justify"> It is not necessary that the person abetted be capable by law of committing an offence or have the same guilty intention or knowledge as that of the abettor, or any guilty intention or knowledge.

??? example "Illustrations"
    <div style="text-align: justify"> 1. A, with a guilty intention, abets a child or a lunatic to commit an act that would be an offence if committed by a person capable by law of committing an offence and having the same intention as A. Here, A, whether the act was committed or not, is guilty of abetting an offence.
    <div style="text-align: justify"> 2. A, with the intention of murdering Z, instigates B, a child under seven years of age, to do an act that causes Z's death. B, in consequence of the abetment, does the act in the absence of A and thereby causes Z's death. Here, though B was not capable by law of committing an offence, A is liable to be punished in the same manner as if B had been capable by law of committing an offence and had committed murder, and he is therefore subject to the punishment of death.
    <div style="text-align: justify"> 3. A instigates B to set fire to a dwelling house. B, in consequence of the unsoundness of his mind, being incapable of knowing the nature of the act or that he is doing what is wrong or contrary to law, sets fire to the house in consequence of A's instigation. B has committed no offence, but A is guilty of abetting the offence of setting fire to a dwelling house and is liable to the punishment provided for that offence.
    <div style="text-align: justify"> 4. A, intending to cause a theft to be committed, instigates B to take property belonging to Z out of Z's possession. A induces B to believe that the property belongs to A. B takes the property out of Z's possession in good faith, believing it to be A's property. B, acting under this misconception, does not act dishonestly and therefore does not commit theft. But A is guilty of abetting theft and is liable to the same punishment as if B had committed theft.
    
??? info "Explanation 4"
    <div style="text-align: justify"> The abetment of an offence being an offence, the abetment of such an offence is also an offence.

??? example "Illustration"
    <div style="text-align: justify"> A instigates B to instigate C to murder Z. B accordingly instigates C to murder Z, and C commits that offence in consequence of B's instigation. B is liable to be punished for his offence with the same punishment as murder, and as A instigated B to commit the offence, A is also liable to the same punishment.
    
??? info "Explanation 5"
    <div style="text-align: justify"> It is not necessary for the commission of the offence of abetment by conspiracy that the abettor coordinate the offence with the person who commits it. It is sufficient if he engages in the conspiracy in pursuance of which the offence is committed.

??? example "Illustration"
    <div style="text-align: justify"> A concerts with B a plan for poisoning Z. It is agreed that A will administer the poison. B then explains the plan to C, mentioning that a third person is to administer the poison but without mentioning A's name. C agrees to procure the poison and procures and delivers it to B for the purpose of its being used in the manner explained. A administers the poison; Z dies in consequence. Here, though A and C have not conspired together, C has been engaged in the conspiracy in pursuance of which Z has been murdered. C has therefore committed the offence defined in this section and is liable to the punishment of murder.
