---
description: Abetment of an offence punishable with imprisonment if the offence is not committed
---

#### Abetment of an offence punishable with imprisonment if the offence is not committed
<div style="text-align: justify">

Whoever abets an offence punishable with imprisonment shall, if that offence is not committed in consequence of the abetment and no express provision is made by this code for the punishment of such abetment, be punished with imprisonment of any description provided for that offence for a term which may extend to one-fourth part of the longest term provided for that offence, or with such fine as is provided for that offence, or with both;

</p>

If the abettor or person abetted is a public servant whose duty it is to prevent an offence, and if the abettor or person abetted is a public servant whose duty it is to prevent the commission of such an offence, the abettor shall be punished with imprisonment of any description provided for that offence, for a term which may extend to one-half of the longest term provided for that offence, or with such a fine as is provided for the offence, or with both.

</div>

??? example "Illustrations"
    <div style="text-align: justify"> 1. A offers a bribe to B, a public servant, as a reward for showing A some favour in the exercise of B’s official functions. B refuses to accept the bribe. A is punishable under this section.
    <div style="text-align: justify"> 2. A instigates B to give false evidence. Here, if B does not give false evidence, A has nevertheless committed the offence defined in this section and is punishable accordingly.
    <div style="text-align: justify"> 3. A, a police officer, whose duty it is to prevent robbery, abets the commission of robbery. Here, though the robbery was not committed, A is liable to one-half of the longest term of imprisonment provided for that offence and also to a fine.
    <div style="text-align: justify"> 4. B abets the commission of a robbery by A, a police officer, whose duty it is to prevent that offence. Here, though the robbery was not committed, B is liable to one-half of the longest term of imprisonment provided for the offence of robbery and also to a fine.
