---
description: Giving false evidence
---

#### Giving false evidence
<div style="text-align: justify">

Whoever, being legally bound by an oath or by an express provision of law to state the truth or being bound by law to make a declaration upon any subject, makes any statement that is false and which he either knows or believes to be false or does not believe to be true, is said to give false evidence.

</div>

??? info "Explanation 1"
    <div style="text-align: justify"> A statement is within the meaning of this section, whether it is made verbally or otherwise.

??? info "Explanation 2"
    <div style="text-align: justify"> A false statement as to the belief of the person attesting is within the meaning of this section, and a person may be guilty of giving false evidence by stating that he believes a thing that he does not believe, as well as by stating that he knows a thing that he does not know.

??? example "Illustrations"
    <div style="text-align: justify"> 1. A, in support of a just claim that B has against Z for one thousand rupees, falsely swears on a trial that he heard Z admit to the justice of B's claim. A has given false evidence.
    <div style="text-align: justify"> 2. A, being bound by an oath to state the truth, states that he believes a certain signature to be the handwriting of Z when he does not believe it to be the handwriting of Z. Here, A states what he knows to be false and therefore gives false evidence.
    <div style="text-align: justify"> 3. A, knowing the general character of Z's handwriting, states that he believes a certain signature to be the handwriting of Z; A, in good faith, believes it to be so. Here, A's statement is merely as to his belief and is true as to his belief, and therefore, although the signature may not be the handwriting of Z, A has not given false evidence.
    <div style="text-align: justify"> 4. A, being bound by an oath to state the truth, states that he knows that Z was at a particular place on a particular day, not knowing anything about the subject. A gives false evidence as to whether Z was at that place on the day named or not.
    <div style="text-align: justify"> 5. A, an interpreter or translator gives or certifies as a true interpretation or translation of a statement or document to which he is bound by oath to interpret or translate truly that which is not and which he does not believe to be a true interpretation or translation. A has given false evidence.
