---
description: Punishment for false evidence
---

#### Punishment for false evidence
<div style="text-align: justify">

Whoever intentionally gives false evidence in any stage of a judicial proceeding or fabricates false evidence for the purpose of being used in any stage of a judicial proceeding shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to seven years and shall also be liable to fine; and whoever intentionally gives or fabricates false evidence in any other case shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to three years and shall also be liable to fine.

</div>

??? info "Explanation 1"
    <div style="text-align: justify"> A trial before a court-martial is a judicial proceeding.

??? info "Explanation 2"
    <div style="text-align: justify"> An investigation directed by law as a preliminary to a proceeding before a Court of Justice is a stage of a judicial proceeding, though that investigation may not take place before a Court of Justice.

??? example "Illustration"
    <div style="text-align: justify"> A, in an inquiry before a magistrate for the purpose of ascertaining whether Z ought to be committed for trial, makes on oath a statement that he knows to be false. As this inquiry is a stage of a judicial proceeding, A has given false evidence.

??? info "Explanation 3"
    <div style="text-align: justify"> An investigation directed by a court of justice according to law and conducted under the authority of a court of justice is a stage of a judicial proceeding, though that investigation may not take place before a court of justice.

??? example "Illustration"
    <div style="text-align: justify"> A, in an inquiry before an officer deputed by a Court of Justice to ascertain on the spot the boundaries of land, A makes on oath a statement that he knows to be false. As this inquiry is a stage of a judicial proceeding, A has given false evidence.
