---
description: Culpable homicide
---

#### Culpable homicide
<div style="text-align: justify">

Whoever causes death by doing an act with the intention of causing death, with the intention of causing such bodily injury as is likely to cause death, or with the knowledge that such an act is likely to cause death, commits the offence of culpable homicide.

</div>

??? example "Illustrations"   
    <div style="text-align: justify"> 1. A lays sticks and turf over a pit with the intention of thereby causing death or with the knowledge that death is likely to be thereby caused. Z, believing the ground to be firm, treads on it, falls in, and is killed. A has committed the offence of culpable homicide.
    <div style="text-align: justify"> 2. A knows Z to be behind a bush. B does not know it. A, intending to cause or knowing it to be likely to cause Z's death, induces B to fire at the bush. B fires and kills Z. Here, B may be guilty of no offence, but A has committed the offence of culpable homicide.
    <div style="text-align: justify"> 3. A, by shooting at a fowl with intent to kill and steal it, kills B, who is behind a bush; A not knowing that he was there. Here, although A was doing an unlawful act, he was not guilty of culpable homicide, as he did not intend to kill Bor to cause death by doing an act that he knew was likely to cause death.


??? info "Explanation 1"
    <div style="text-align: justify"> A person who causes bodily injury to another who is labouring under a disorder, disease, or bodily infirmity and thereby accelerates the death of that other shall be deemed to have caused his death.

??? info "Explanation 2"
    <div style="text-align: justify"> Where death is caused by bodily injury, the person who causes such bodily injury shall be deemed to have caused the death, although by resorting to proper remedies and skilled treatment, the death might have been prevented.

??? info "Explanation 3"
    <div style="text-align: justify"> The causing of the death of a child in the mother's womb is not homicide. But it may amount to culpable homicide to cause the death ofa living child if any part of that child has been brought forth, though the child may not have breathed or been completely born.
