---
description: Voluntarily causing hurt to extort confession or to compel restoration of property
---

#### Voluntarily causing hurt to extort confession or to compel restoration of property
<div style="text-align: justify">

Whoever voluntarily causes hurt, for the purpose of extorting from the sufferer or from any person interested in the sufferer, any confession or any information which may lead to the detection of an offence or misconduct, or for the purpose of constraining the sufferer or any person interested in the sufferer to restore or cause the restoration of any property or valuable security or to satisfy any claim or demand, or to give information which may lead to the restoration of any property or valuable security, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to seven years and shall also be liable to fine.

</div>

??? example "Illustrations"
    <div style="text-align: justify"> 1. A, a police officer, tortures Z in order to induce him to confess that he committed a crime. A is guilty of an offence under this section.
    <div style="text-align: justify"> 2. A, a police officer, tortures B to induce him to point out where certain stolen property is deposited. A is guilty of an offence under this section.
    <div style="text-align: justify"> 3. A, a revenue officer, tortures Z in order to compel him to pay certain arrears of revenue due from Z. A is guilty of an offence under this section.
    <div style="text-align: justify"> 4. A, a zamindar tortures a raiyat in order to compel him to pay his rent. A is guilty of an offence under this section.

