---
description: Criminal force
---

#### Criminal force
<div style="text-align: justify">

Whoever intentionally uses force on any person, without that person's consent, in order to commit any offence, intending by the use of such force to cause injury, fear, or annoyance to the person to whom the force is applied, is said to use criminal force on that person.

</div>

??? example "Illustrations"
    <div style="text-align: justify"> 1. Z is sitting in a moored boat on a river. A, unfastens the moorings, and thus intentionally causes the boat to drift down the stream. Here A intentionally causes motion in Z, and he does this by disposing of substances in such a manner that the motion is produced without any other action on any person's part. A has therefore intentionally used force on Z, and if he has done so without Z's consent in order to commit any offence or intending or knowing it to be likely that this use of force will cause injury, fear, or annoyance to Z, A has used criminal force on Z.
    <div style="text-align: justify"> 2. Z is riding in a chariot. A lashes Z's horses and thereby causes them to quicken their pace. Here, A has caused a change of motion in Z by inducing the animals to change their motion. A has therefore used force against Z, and if A has done this without Z's consent, intending or knowing it to be likely that he may thereby injure, frighten, or annoy Z, A has used criminal force against Z.
    <div style="text-align: justify"> 3. Z is riding in a palanquin. A, intending to rob Z, seizes the pole and stops the palanquin. Here, A has caused cessation of motion in Z, and he has done this by his own bodily power. A has therefore used force on Z, and as A has acted thus intentionally, without Z's consent, in order to commit an offence, A has used criminal force on Z.
    <div style="text-align: justify"> 4. A intentionally pushes against Z in the street. Here, A has, by his own bodily power, moved his own body so as to bring it into contact with Z. He has therefore intentionally used force on Z, and if he has done so without Z's consent, intending or knowing it to be likely that he may thereby injure, frighten, or annoy Z, he has used criminal force on Z.
    <div style="text-align: justify"> 5. A throws a stone, intending or knowing it to be likely that the stone will be thus brought into contact with Z, or with Z's clothes, or with something carried by Z, or that it will strike water and dash up the water against Z's clothes or something carried by Z. Here, if the throwing of the stone produces the effect of causing any substance to come into contact with Z or Z's clothes, A has used force on Z, and if he did so without Z's consent, intending thereby to injure, frighten, or annoy Z, he has used criminal force on Z.
    <div style="text-align: justify"> 6. A, intentionally pulls up a woman's veil. Here A intentionally uses force on her, and if he does so without her consent, intending or knowing it to be likely that he may thereby injure, frighten, or annoy her, he has used criminal force on her.
    <div style="text-align: justify"> 7. Z is bathing. A, pours into the bath water, which he knows is boiling. Here A intentionally, by his own bodily power, causes such motion in the boiling water as to bring that water into contact with Z or with other water so situated that such contact must affect Z's sense of feeling; A has therefore intentionally used force on Z; and if he has done this without Z's consent, intending or knowing it to be likely that he may thereby cause injury, fear, or annoyance to Z, A has used criminal force.
    <div style="text-align: justify"> 8. A incites a dog to spring upon Z without Z's consent. Here, if A intends to cause injury, fear, or annoyance to Z, he uses criminal force against Z.
