### Trafficking of persons

1. <div style="text-align: justify"> Whoever, for the purpose of exploitation, (a) recruits, (b) transports, (c) harbours, (d) transfers, or (e) receives a person or persons by—
    1. using threats, or
    2. using force or any other form of coercion, or
    3. by abduction, or
    4. by practising fraud, deception, or
    5. by abuse of power, or
    6. by inducement, including the giving or receiving of payments or benefits, in order to achieve the consent of any person having control over the person recruited, transported, harboured, transferred, or received, commits the offence of trafficking.

    ??? info "Explanation 1"
        <div style="text-align: justify"> The expression "exploitation" shall include any act of physical exploitation or any form of sexual exploitation, slavery, or practises similar to slavery, servitude, or the forced removal of organs.

    ??? info "Explanation 2"
        <div style="text-align: justify"> The consent of the victim is immaterial in the determination of the offence of trafficking.

2. <div style="text-align: justify"> Whoever commits the offence of trafficking shall be punished with rigorous imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than seven years but which may extend to ten years, and shall also be liable to a fine.
3. <div style="text-align: justify"> Where the offence involves the trafficking of more than one person, it shall be punishable with rigorous imprisonment for a term that shall not be less than ten years but may extend to imprisonment for life, and it shall also be liable to a fine.
4. <div style="text-align: justify"> Where the offence involves the trafficking of a minor, it shall be punishable with rigorous imprisonment for a term that shall not be less than ten years but may extend to imprisonment for life, and it shall also be liable to a fine.
5. <div style="text-align: justify"> Where the offence involves the trafficking of more than one minor, it shall be punishable with rigorous imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than fourteen years but which may extend to imprisonment for life and shall also be liable to a fine.
6. <div style="text-align: justify"> If a person is convicted of the offence of trafficking in minors on more than one occasion, then such person shall be punished with imprisonment for life, which shall mean imprisonment for the remainder of that person's natural life, and shall also be liable to a fine.
7. <div style="text-align: justify"> When a public servant or a police officer is involved in the trafficking of any person, such public servant or police officer shall be punished with imprisonment for life, which shall mean imprisonment for the remainder of that person’s natural life, and shall also be liable to a fine.
