### Rape
<div style="text-align: justify">

A man is said to have committed "rape" if he does any of the following:

</div>

1. <div style="text-align: justify"> penetrates his penis, to any extent, into the vagina, mouth, urethra, or anus of a woman, or makes her do so with him or any other person; or
2. <div style="text-align: justify"> inserts, to any extent, any object or a part of the body, not being the penis, into the vagina, the urethra, or the anus of a woman, or makes her do so with him or any other person; or
3. <div style="text-align: justify"> manipulates any part of the body of a woman so as to cause penetration into the vagina, urethra, anus, or any other part of the body of such a woman, or makes her do so with him or any other person; or
4. <div style="text-align: justify"> applies his mouth to the vagina, anus, or urethra of a woman or makes her do so with him or any other person, under the circumstances falling under any of the following seven descriptions:
    1. against her will
    2. without her consent
    3. with her consent, when her consent has been obtained by putting her or any person in whom she is interested in fear of death or of hurt.
    4. with her consent, when the man knows that he is not her husband and that her consent is given because she believes that he is another man to whom she is or believes herself to be lawfully married.
    5. with her consent when, at the time of giving such consent, by reason of unsoundness of mind or intoxication or the administration by him personally or through another of any stupefying or unwholesome substance, she is unable to understand the nature and consequences of that to which she gives consent.
    6. with or without her consent, when she is under eighteen years of age.
    7. when she is unable to communicate consent.

??? info "Explanation 1"
    <div style="text-align: justify"> For the purposes of this section, "vagina" shall also include labia majora.

??? info "Explanation 2"
    <div style="text-align: justify"> Consent means an unequivocal voluntary agreement when the woman, by words, gestures, or any other form of verbal or non-verbal communication, communicates her willingness to participate in the specific sexual act, provided that a woman who does not physically resist the act of penetration shall not, by reason only of that fact, be regarded as consenting to the sexual activity.

??? warning "Exception 1"
    <div style="text-align: justify"> A medical procedure or intervention shall not constitute rape.

??? warning "Exception 2"
    <div style="text-align: justify"> Sexual intercourse or sexual acts by a man with his own wife, the wife not being under fifteen years of age, are not rape.
