---
description: Theft
---

#### Theft
<div style="text-align: justify">

Whoever, intending to dishonestly take any movable property out of the possession of any person without that person's consent, moves that property in order to do so is said to commit theft.

</div>

??? info "Explanation 1"
    <div style="text-align: justify"> A thing so long as it is attached to the earth, not being movable property, is not the subject of theft, but it becomes capable of being the subject of theft as soon as it is severed from the earth.

??? info "Explanation 2"
    <div style="text-align: justify"> A move effected by the same act that effects the severance may be a theft.

??? info "Explanation 3"
    <div style="text-align: justify"> A person is said to cause a thing to move by removing an obstacle that prevented it from moving or by separating it from any other thing, as well as by actually moving it.

??? info "Explanation 4"
    <div style="text-align: justify"> A person who by any means causes an animal to move is said to move that animal and to move everything that, in consequence of the motion so caused, is moved by that animal.

??? info "Explanation 5"
    <div style="text-align: justify"> The consent mentioned in the definition may be express or implied and may be given either by the person in possession or by any person having for that purpose authority, either express or implied.

??? example "Illustrations"
    <div style="text-align: justify"> 1. A cuts down a tree on Z's ground with the intention of dishonestly taking the tree out of Z's possession without Z's consent. Here, as soon as A has severed the tree in order to do so, he has committed theft.
    <div style="text-align: justify"> 2. A puts a bait for dogs in his pocket and thus induces Z's dog to follow it. Here, if A's intention is dishonestly to take the dog out of Z's possession without Z's consent, A has committed theft as soon as Z's dog has begun to follow A.
    <div style="text-align: justify"> 3. A meets a bullock carrying a box of treasure. He drives the bullock in a certain direction in order that he may dishonestly take the treasure. As soon as the bullock begins to move, A has committed the theft of the treasure.
    <div style="text-align: justify"> 4. A, being Z's servant and entrusted by Z with the care of Z's plate, dishonestly runs away with the plate without Z's consent. A has committed theft.
    <div style="text-align: justify"> 5. Z, going on a journey, entrusts his plate to A, the keeper of a warehouse, till Z returns. A carries the plate to a goldsmith and sells it. Here, the plate was not in Z's possession. It could not therefore be taken out of Z's possession, and A has not committed theft, though he may have committed a criminal breach of trust.
    <div style="text-align: justify"> 6. A finds a ring belonging to Z on a table in the house that Z occupies. Here the ring is in Z's possession, and if A dishonestly removes it, A commits theft.
    <div style="text-align: justify"> 7. A finds a ring lying on the road, not in the possession of any person. By taking it, A commits no theft, though he may commit criminal misappropriation of property.
    <div style="text-align: justify"> 8. A sees a ring belonging to Z lying on a table in Z's house. Not venturing to misappropriate the ring immediately for fear of search and detection, A hides the ring in a place where it is highly improbable that it will ever be found by Z, with the intention of taking the ring from the hiding place and selling it when the loss is forgotten. Here, A, at the time of first moving the ring, commits theft.
    <div style="text-align: justify"> 9. A delivers his watch to Z, a jeweller, to be regulated. Z carries it to his shop. A, not owing to the jeweller any debt for which the jeweller might lawfully detain the watch as a security, enters the shop openly, takes his watch by force out of Z's hand, and carries it away. Here, A, though he may have committed criminal trespass and assault, has not committed theft, inasmuch as what he did was not done dishonestly.
    <div style="text-align: justify"> 10. If A owes money to Z for repairing the watch, and if Z retains the watch lawfully as a security for the debt, and A takes the watch out of Z's possession with the intention of depriving Z of the property as a security for his debt, he commits theft inasmuch as he takes it dishonestly.
    <div style="text-align: justify"> 11. Again, if A, having pawned his watch to Z, takes it out of Z's possession without Z's consent, not having paid what he borrowed on the watch, he commits theft, though the watch is his own property inasmuch as he takes it dishonestly.
    <div style="text-align: justify"> 12. A takes an article belonging to Z out of Z's possession without Z's consent, with the intention of keeping it until he obtains money from Z as a reward for its restoration. Here A takes dishonestly; A has therefor committed theft.
    <div style="text-align: justify"> 13. A, being on friendly terms with Z, goes into Z's library in Z's absence and takes away a book without Z's express consent for the purpose merely of reading it and with the intention of returning it. Here, it is probable that A may have conceived that he had Z's implied consent to use Z's book. If this was A's impression, A has not committed theft.
    <div style="text-align: justify"> 14. A asks for charity from Z's wife. She gives A money, food, and clothes, which A knows belong to Z, her husband. Here it is probable that A may conceive that Z's wife is authorised to give away alms. If this was A's impression, A has not committed theft.
    <div style="text-align: justify"> 15. A is the paramour of Z's wife. She gives a valuable property, which A knows to belong to her husband Z and to be such property as she has not received authority from Z to give. If A takes the property dishonestly, he commits theft.
    <div style="text-align: justify"> 16. A, in good faith, believing property belonging to Z to be A's own property, takes that property out of B's possession. Here, as A does not take dishonestly, he does not commit theft.
