### Robbery
<div style="text-align: justify">

In all robberies, there is either theft or extortion.

</p>

Theft is "robbery" if, in order to commit the theft, or in committing the theft, or in carrying away or attempting to carry away property obtained by the theft, the offender, for that end, voluntarily causes or attempts to cause to any person death, hurt, or wrongful restraint, or fear of instant death, instant hurt, or instant wrongful restraint.

</p>

Extortion is "robbery" if the offender, at the time of committing the extortion, is in the presence of the person put in fear and commits the extortion by putting that person in fear of instant death, of instant hurt, or of instant wrongful restraint to that person or to some other person, and, by so putting in fear, induces the person so put in fear then and there to deliver up the thing extorted.

</div>

??? note "Explanation"
    <div style="text-align: justify"> The offender is said to be present if he is sufficiently near to put the other person in fear of instant death, instant hurt, or instant wrongful restraint.

??? example "Illustrations"
    <div style="text-align: justify"> 1. A holds Z down and fraudulently takes Z's money and jewels from Z's clothes without Z's consent. Here, A has committed theft and, in order to commit that theft, has voluntarily caused wrongful restraint to Z. A has therefore committed robbery.
    <div style="text-align: justify"> 2. A meets Z on the high road, shows a pistol, and demands Z's purse. Z, in consequence, surrenders his purse. Here, A has extorted the purse from Z by putting him in fear of instant hurt and committing the extortion in his presence. A has therefore committed robbery.
    <div style="text-align: justify"> 3. A meets Z and Z's child on the high road. A takes the child and threatens to file it down a precipice unless Z delivers his purse. Z, in consequence, delivers his purse. Here, A has extorted the purse from Z by causing Z to be in fear of instant harm to the child who is present. A has therefore committed robbery against Z.
    <div style="text-align: justify"> 4. A obtains property from Z by saying "Your child is in the hands of my gang and will be put to death unless you send us ten thousand rupees". This is extortion and punishable as such, but it is not robbery unless Z is put in fear of the instant death of his child.
