### Dishonest misappropriation of property
<div style="text-align: justify">

Whoever dishonestly misappropriates or converts to his own use any movable property shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to two years, with a fine, or with both.

</div>

??? example "Illustrations"
    <div style="text-align: justify"> 1. A takes property belonging to Z out of Z's possession in good faith, believing at the time when he takes it that the property belongs to himself. A is not guilty of theft, but if A, after discovering his mistake, dishonestly appropriates the property for his own use, he is guilty of an offence under this section.
    <div style="text-align: justify"> 2. A, being on friendly terms with Z, goes into Z's library in Z's absence and takes away a book without Z's express consent. Here, if A was under the impression that he had Z's implied consent to take the book for the purpose of reading it, A has not committed theft. But if A later sells the book for his own benefit, he is guilty of an offence under this section.
    <div style="text-align: justify"> 3. A and B, being joint owners of a horse, A takes the horse out of B's possession, intending to use it. Here, as A has a right to use the horse, he does not dishonestly misappropriate it. But if A sells the horse and appropriates the whole proceeds to his own use, he is guilty of an offence under this section.

??? info "Explanation 1"
    <div style="text-align: justify"> A dishonest misappropriation for a limited time is a misappropriation within the meaning of this section.

??? example "Illustration"
    <div style="text-align: justify"> A finds a government promissory note belonging to Z bearing a blank endorsement. A, knowing that the note belongs to Z, pledges it to a banker as security or a loan, intending at a future time to restore it to Z. A has committed an offence under this section.

??? info "Explanation 2"
    <div style="text-align: justify"> A person who finds property not in the possession of any other person and takes such property for the purpose of protecting it for, or of restoring it to, the owner does not take or misappropriate it dishonestly and is not guilty of an offence; but he is guilty of the offence above defined if he appropriates it to his own use when he knows or has the means of discovering the owner, or before he has used reasonable means to discover and give notice to the owner and has kept the property for a reasonable time to enable the owner to claim it.
    
    </p>

    What are reasonable means or what is a reasonable time in such a case? This is a question of fact. It is not necessary that the finder know who is the owner of the property or that any particular person is the owner of it; it is sufficient if, at the time of appropriating it, he does not believe it to be his own property or, in good faith, believes that the real owner cannot be found.
    
    </div>

??? example "Illustrations"
    <div style="text-align: justify"> 1. A finds a rupee on the high road; not knowing to whom the rupee belongs, A picks up the rupee. Here, A has not committed the offence defined in this section.
    <div style="text-align: justify"> 2. A finds a letter on the road containing a bank note. From the direction and contents of the letter, he learns to whom the note belongs. He appropriates the note. He is guilty of an offence under this section.
    <div style="text-align: justify"> 3. A finds a cheque payable to the bearer. He can make no conjecture as to who has lost the cheque. But the name of the person who has drawn the cheque, appears. A knows that this person can direct him to the person in whose favour the cheque was drawn. A appropriates the cheque without attempting to discover the owner. He is guilty of an offence under this section.
    <div style="text-align: justify"> 4. A sees Z drop his purse with money in it. A picks up the purse with the intention of restoring it to Z, but afterwards appropriates it for his own use. A has committed an offence under this section.
    <div style="text-align: justify"> 5. A finds a purse with money, not knowing to whom it belongs; he afterwards discovers that it belongs to Z and appropriates it for his own use. A is guilty of an offence under this section.
    <div style="text-align: justify"> 6. A finds a valuable ring, not knowing to whom it belongs. A sells it immediately without attempting to discover the owner. A is guilty of an offence under this section.


