---
description: Cheating
---

#### Cheating
<div style="text-align: justify">

Whoever, by deceiving any person, fraudulently or dishonestly induces the person so deceived to deliver any property to any person, or to consent that any person shall retain any property, or intentionally induces the person so deceived to do or omit to do anything which he would not do or omit if he were not so deceived, and which act or omission causes or is likely to cause damage or harm to that person in body, mind, reputation, or property, is said to "cheat".

</div>

??? info "Explanation"
    <div style="text-align: justify"> A dishonest concealment of facts is a deception within the meaning of this section.

??? example "Illustrations"
    <div style="text-align: justify"> 1. A, by falsely pretending to be in the Civil Service, intentionally deceives Z and thus dishonestly induces Z to let him have on credit goods for which he does not mean to pay. A cheats.
    <div style="text-align: justify"> 2. A, by putting a counterfeit mark on an article, intentionally deceives Z into believing that this article was made by a certain celebrated manufacturer and thus dishonestly induces Z to buy and pay for the article. A cheats.
    <div style="text-align: justify"> 3. A, by exhibiting to Z a false sample of an article, intentionally deceives Z into believing that the article corresponds with the sample and thereby dishonestly induces Z to buy and pay for the article. A cheats.
    <div style="text-align: justify"> 4. A, by tendering in payment for an article a bill on a house with which A keeps no money and by which A expects that the bill will be dishonoured, intentionally deceives Z and thereby dishonestly induces Z to deliver the article, intending not to pay for it. A cheats.
    <div style="text-align: justify"> 5. A, by pledging diamond articles that he knows are not diamonds, intentionally deceives Z and thereby dishonestly induces Z to lend money. A cheats.
    <div style="text-align: justify"> 6. A intentionally deceives Z into believing that A means to repay any money that Z may lend to him and thereby dishonestly induces Z to lend him money without intending to repay it. A cheats.
    <div style="text-align: justify"> 7. A intentionally deceives Z into believing that A means to deliver to Z a certain quantity of indigo plant, which he does not intend to deliver, and thereby dishonestly induces Z to advance money on the faith of such a delivery. A cheats, but if A, at the time of obtaining the money, intends to deliver the indigo plant and afterwards breaks his contract and does not deliver it, he does not cheat but is liable only to a civil action for breach of contract.
    <div style="text-align: justify"> 8. A intentionally deceives Z into believing that A has performed A's part of a contract made with Z, which he has not performed, and thereby dishonestly induces Z to pay money. A cheats.
    <div style="text-align: justify"> 9. A sells and conveys an estate to B. A, knowing that in consequence of such a sale he has no right to the property, sells or mortgages the same to Z, without disclosing the fact of the previous sale and conveyance to B, and receives the purchase or mortgage money from Z. A cheats.

