---
description: Mischief
---

#### Mischief
<div style="text-align: justify">

Whoever, with intent to cause, or knowing that he is likely to cause, wrongful loss or damage to the public or to any person, causes the destruction of any property, or any such change in any property or in the situation thereof as destroys or diminishes its value or utility, or affects it injuriously, commits "mischief".

</div>

??? info "Explanation 1"
    <div style="text-align: justify"> It is not essential to the offence of mischief that the offender intend to cause loss or damage to the owner of the property injured or destroyed. It is sufficient if he intends to cause, or knows that he is likely to cause, wrongful loss or damage to any person by injuring any property, whether it belongs to that person or not.

??? info "Explanation 2"
    <div style="text-align: justify"> Mischief may be committed by an act affecting property belonging to the person who commits the act or to that person and others jointly.
    <div style="text-align: justify"> 1. A voluntarily burns a valuable security belonging to Z, intending to cause wrongful loss to Z. A has committed mischief.
    <div style="text-align: justify"> 2. A introduces water into an ice house belonging to Z and thus causes the ice to melt, intending wrongful loss to Z. A has committed mischief.
    <div style="text-align: justify"> 3. A voluntarily throws into a river a ring belonging to Z with the intention of thereby causing wrongful loss to Z. A has committed mischief.
    <div style="text-align: justify"> 4. A, knowing that his effects are about to be taken in execution in order to satisfy a debt due from him to Z, destroys those effects with the intention of thereby preventing Z from obtaining satisfaction of the debt and of thus causing damage to Z. A has committed mischief.
    <div style="text-align: justify"> 5. A who has insured a ship voluntarily causes the same to be cast away with the intention of causing damage to the underwriters. A has committed mischief.
    <div style="text-align: justify"> 6. A causes a ship to be cast away, intending thereby to cause damage to Z, who has lent money based on bottomry on the ship. A has committed mischief.
    <div style="text-align: justify"> 7. A, having joint property with Z in a horse, shoots the horse, intending thereby to cause wrongful loss to Z. A has committed mischief.
    <div style="text-align: justify"> 8. A causes cattle to enter a field belonging to Z, intending to cause damage and knowing that he is likely to cause damage to Z's crop. A has committed mischief.
