---
description: Housebreaking
---

#### Housebreaking
<div style="text-align: justify">

A person is said to commit housebreaking if he effects his entrance into the house or any part of it in any of the six ways hereinafter described; or if, being in the house or any part of it for the purpose of committing an offence or having committed an offence therein, he quits the house or any part of it in any of such six ways, that is to say:

</div>

1. <div style="text-align: justify"> If he enters or quits through a passage made by himself or by any abettor of the house trespass in order to commit the house trespass,
2. <div style="text-align: justify"> If he enters or quits through any passage not intended by any person, other than himself or an abettor of the offence, for human entrance or through any passage to which he has obtained access by scaling or climbing over any wall or building,
3. <div style="text-align: justify"> If he enters or quits through any passage that he or any abettor of the house trespass has opened in order to commit the house trespass by any means by which that passage was not intended by the occupier of the house to be opened,
4. <div style="text-align: justify"> If he enters or quits by opening any lock in order to commit the house trespass or in order to quit the house after a house trespass,
5. <div style="text-align: justify"> If he effects his entrance or departure by using criminal force, committing an assault, or threatening any person with assault,
6. <div style="text-align: justify"> If he enters or quits by any passage which he knows to have been fastened against such entrance or departure and to have been unfastened by himself or by an abettor of the house-trespass,

??? info "Explanation"
    <div style="text-align: justify"> Any outhouse or building occupied with a house and between which there is immediate internal communication is part of the house within the meaning of this section.

??? example "Illustrations"
    <div style="text-align: justify"> 1. A commits house trespass by making a hole through the wall of Z's house and putting his hand through the aperture. This is housebreaking.
    <div style="text-align: justify"> 2. A commits house trespass by creeping into a ship at a porthole between decks. This is housebreaking.
    <div style="text-align: justify"> 3. A commits house trespass by entering Z's house through a window. This is housebreaking.
    <div style="text-align: justify"> 4. A commits house trespass by entering Z's house through the door, having opened a door that was fastened. This is housebreaking.
    <div style="text-align: justify"> 5. A commits house trespass by entering Z's house through the door, having lifted a latch by putting a wire through a hole in the door. This is housebreaking.
    <div style="text-align: justify"> 6. A finds the key to Z's house door, which Z had lost, and commits house trespass by entering Z's house, having opened the door with that key. This is housebreaking.
    <div style="text-align: justify"> 7. Z is standing in his doorway. A forces a passage by knocking Z down and commits house trespass by entering the house. This is housebreaking.
    <div style="text-align: justify"> 8. Z, the doorkeeper of Y, is standing in Y's doorway. A commits house trespass by entering the house, having deterred Z from opposing him by threatening to beat him. This is housebreaking.

