---
description: Defamation
---

#### Defamation
<div style="text-align: justify">

Whoever, by words either spoken or intended to be read, or by signs or visible representations, makes or publishes any imputation concerning any person intending to harm, or knowing or having reason to believe that such imputation will harm, the reputation of such person, is said, except in the cases hereinafter excepted, to defame that person.

</div>

??? info "Explanation 1"
    <div style="text-align: justify"> It may amount to defamation to impute anything to a deceased person if the imputation would harm the reputation of that person if living and is intended to hurt the feelings of his family or other near relatives.

??? info "Explanation 2"
    <div style="text-align: justify"> It may amount to defamation to make an imputation concerning a company, an association, or a collection of persons as such.

??? info "Explanation 3"
    <div style="text-align: justify"> An imputation in the form of an alternative or expressed ironically may amount to defamation.

??? info "Explanation 4"
    <div style="text-align: justify"> No imputation is said to harm a person's reputation unless that imputation, directly or indirectly, in the estimation of others, lowers the moral or intellectual character of that person, or lowers the character of that person in respect of his caste or of his calling, or lowers the credit of that person, or causes it to be believed that the body of that person is in a lothsome state, or in a state generally considered disgraceful.

??? example "Illustrations"
    <div style="text-align: justify"> 1. A says, "Z is an honest man; he never stole B's watch," intending to cause it to be believed that Z did steal B's watch. This is defamation, unless it falls within one of the exceptions.
    <div style="text-align: justify"> 2. A is asked who stole B's watch. A points to Z, intending to cause it to be believed that Z stole B's watch. This is defamation, unless it falls within one of the exceptions.
    <div style="text-align: justify"> 3. A draws a picture of Z running away with B's watch, intending it to be believed that Z stole B's watch. This is defamation, unless it falls within one of the exceptions.

??? warning "Exception 1"
    <div style="text-align: justify"> Imputation of truth, which a public good requires to be made or published: It is not defamation to impute anything that is true concerning any person if it is for the public good that the imputation be made or published. Whether or not it is for the public good is a question of fact.

??? warning "Exception 2"
    <div style="text-align: justify"> Public conduct of public servants: It is not defamation to express in good faith any opinion whatever respecting the conduct of a public servant in the discharge of his public functions or respecting his character, so far as his character appears in that conduct and no further.

??? warning "Exception 3"
    <div style="text-align: justify"> Conduct of any person touching any public question: It is not defamation to express in good faith any opinion whatever respecting the conduct of any person touching any public question and respecting his character, so far as his character appears in that conduct, and no further.

??? example "Illustration"
    <div style="text-align: justify"> It is not defamation for A to express in good faith any opinion whatever resembling Z's conduct in petitioning the government on a public question, in signing a requisition for a meeting on a public question, in presiding over or attending such a meeting, in forming or joining any society that invites the public's support, in voting for or canvassing for a particular candidate for any situation in the efficient discharge of the duties in which the public is interested.

??? warning "Exception 4"
    <div style="text-align: justify"> Publication of reports of proceedings of courts: It is not defamation to publish a substantially true report of the proceedings of a court of justice or of the result of any such proceedings.

??? info "Explanation 5"
    <div style="text-align: justify"> A justice of the peace or other officer holding an inquiry in open court prior to a trial in a court of justice is a court within the meaning of the above section.

??? warning "Exception 5"
    <div style="text-align: justify"> Merits of the case decided in court or conduct of witnesses and others concerned: It is not defamation to express in good faith any opinion whatever respecting the merits of any case, civil or criminal, which has been decided by a Court of Justice, or respecting the conduct of any person as a party, witness, or agent in any such case, or respecting the character of such a person, as far as his character appears in that conduct, and no further.

??? example "Illustrations"
    <div style="text-align: justify"> 1. A says, "I think Z's evidence on that trial is so contradictory that he must be stupid or dishonest." A is within this exception if he says this in good faith, inasmuch as the opinion which he expresses respects Z's character as it appears in Z's conduct as a witness, and no farther.
    <div style="text-align: justify"> 2. But if A says, "I do not believe what Z asserted at that trial because I know him to be a man without veracity," A is not within this exception, inasmuch as the opinion that expresses Z's character is an opinion not founded on Z's conduct as a witness.

??? warning "Exception 6"
    <div style="text-align: justify"> Merits of public performance: It is not defamation to express in good faith any opinion respecting the merits of any performance that its author has submitted to the judgement of the public or respecting the character of the author so far as his character appears in such a performance, and no further.

??? info "Explanation 6"
    <div style="text-align: justify"> A performance may be submitted to the judgement of the public expressly or by acts on the part of the author that imply such submission to the judgement of the public.

??? example "Illustrations"
    <div style="text-align: justify"> 1. A person who publishes a book submits that book to the judgement of the public.
    <div style="text-align: justify"> 2. A person who makes a speech in public submits that speech to the judgement of the public.
    <div style="text-align: justify"> 3. An actor or singer who appears on a public stage submits his acting or singing to the judgement of the public.
    <div style="text-align: justify"> 4. A says of a book published by Z, "Z’s book is foolish; Z must be a weak man. Z's book is indecent; Z must be a man of impure mind." A is within the exception if he says this in good faith, inasmuch as the opinion that he expresses of Z respects Z's character only so far as it appears in Z's book and no further.
    <div style="text-align: justify"> 5. But if A says, "I am not surprised that Z's book is foolish and indecent, for he is a weak man and a libertine," A is not within this exception, inasmuch as the opinion that he expresses about Z's character is not founded on Z's book.

??? warning "Exception 7"
    <div style="text-align: justify"> Censure passed in good faith by a person having lawful authority over another: It is not defamation for a person having over another any authority, either conferred by law or arising out of a lawful contract made with that other, to pass in good faith any censure on the conduct of that other in matters to which such lawful authority relates.

??? example "Illustration"
    <div style="text-align: justify"> A judge censuring in good faith the conduct of a witness or of an officer of the court; a head of a department censuring in good faith those who are under his orders; a parent censuring in good faith a child in the presence of other children; a schoolmaster, whose authority is derived from a parent, censuring in good faith a pupil in the presence of other pupils; a master censuring a servant in good faith for remissness in service; a banker censuring in good faith the cashier of his bank for the conduct of such a cashier; are within this exception.

??? warning "Exception 8"
    <div style="text-align: justify"> Accusation preferred in good faith to authorised person: It is not defamation to prefer in good faith an accusation against any person to any of those who have lawful authority over that person with respect to the subject-matter of the accusation.

??? example "Illustration"
    <div style="text-align: justify"> If A in good faith accuses Z before a magistrate, if A in good faith complains of the conduct of Z, a servant, to Z's master, or if A in good faith complains of the conduct of Z, a child, to Z's father, A is within this exception.

??? warning "Exception 9"
    <div style="text-align: justify"> Imputation made in good faith by a person for protection of his or another's interests: It is not defamation to make an imputation on the character of another, provided that the imputation be made in good faith for the protection of the interests of the person making it, of any other person, or for the public good.

??? example "Illustrations"
    <div style="text-align: justify"> 1. A, a shopkeeper says to B, who manages his business, "Sell nothing to Z unless he pays you ready money, for I have no opinion of his honesty." A is within the exception if he has made this imputation on Z in good faith for the protection of his own interests.
    <div style="text-align: justify"> 2. A, a magistrate, in making a report to his own superior officer, casts an imputation on the character of Z. Here, if the imputation is made in good faith and for the public good, A is within the exception.

??? warning "Exception 10"
    <div style="text-align: justify"> Caution intended for the good of the person to whom it is conveyed or for the public good: It is not defamation to convey a caution, in good faith, to one person against another, provided that such caution be intended for the good of the person to whom it is conveyed, of some person in whom that person is interested, or for the public good.

