### Act done in good faith for the benefit of a person without consent
<div style="text-align: justify">

Nothing is an offence by reason of any harm which it may cause to a person for whose benefit it is done in good faith, even without that person's consent, if the circumstances are such that it is impossible for that person to signify consent, or if that person is incapable of giving consent and has no guardian or other person in lawful charge of him from whom it is possible to obtain consent in time for the thing to be done with benefit, provided:

</div>

1. <div style="text-align: justify"> That this exception shall not extend to the intentional causing of death or the attempting to cause death </div>
2. <div style="text-align: justify"> That this exception shall not extend to the doing of anything that the person doing it knows to be likely to cause death for any purpose other than the prevention of death or grievous hurt or the curing of any grievous disease or infirmity </div>
3. <div style="text-align: justify"> That this exception shall not extend to the voluntary causing of hurt or to the attempting to cause hurt for any purpose other than the prevention of death or hurt </div>
4. <div style="text-align: justify"> That this exception shall not extend to the abetment of any offence, to the committing of which offence it would not extend </div>

??? example "Illustrations"
    <div style="text-align: justify"> 1. Z is thrown from his horse and is insensible. A, a surgeon, finds that Z needs to be trepanned. A, not intending Z's death but in good faith and for Z's benefit, performs the trepan before Z recovers his power of judging for himself. A has committed no offence.
    <div style="text-align: justify"> 2. Z is carried off by a tiger. A fires at the tiger, knowing it to be likely that the shot may kill Z, but not intending to kill Z and in good faith intending Z's benefit. A's ball gives Z a mortal wound. A has committed no offence.
    <div style="text-align: justify"> 3. A, a surgeon sees a child suffer an accident that is likely to prove fatal unless an operation is immediately performed. There is not enough time to apply to the child's guardian. A performs the operation in spite of the entreaties of the child, intending, in good faith, for the child's benefit. A has committed no offence.
    <div style="text-align: justify"> 4. A is in a house that is on fire with Z, a child. People below hold out a blanket. A drops the child from the house stop, knowing it to be likely that the fall may kill the child, but not intending to kill the child and intending, in good faith, the child's benefit. Here, even if the child is killed by the fall, A has committed no offence.
        
??? info "Explanation"
    <div style="text-align: justify"> A mere pecuniary benefit is not a benefit within the meaning of sections 88, 89, and 92.
